 | # # # Distribution Statement A. Approved for public release. Distribution unlimited.
 | # # #
 | # # # Author:
 | # # # Naval Research Laboratory, Marine Meteorology Division
 | # # #
 | # # # This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
 | # # # the terms of the NRLMMD License included with this program. This program is
 | # # # distributed WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 | # # # MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the included license
 | # # # for more details. If you did not receive the license, for more information see:
 | # # # https://github.com/U-S-NRL-Marine-Meteorology-Division/

Version 1.10.0a2 (2023-05-04)
*****************************

* Change colormap families to "matplotlib"
* Removed sectorfiles argument from all test scripts.
* Added missing docstring to init file.

Breaking Changes
================

Removed sectorfiles argument from all test scripts
--------------------------------------------------

No longer require explicit path to YAML sector files - pass
only sector_list, since sectors are now fully fledged plugins.

::

  modified: tests/scripts/abi_cldFraction.sh
  modified: tests/scripts/ahi_Temp11p0.sh
  modified: tests/scripts/ahi_Temp3p75.sh
  modified: tests/scripts/ahi_cldFraction.sh
  modified: tests/scripts/ahi_cldHeight.sh
  modified: tests/scripts/ahi_cldHeightBase.sh
  modified: tests/scripts/ahi_cldHeightTop.sh
  modified: tests/scripts/ahi_cldMask.sh
  modified: tests/scripts/ahi_cldOpd.sh
  modified: tests/scripts/ahi_cldPhase.sh
  modified: tests/scripts/ahi_cldReff.sh
  modified: tests/scripts/ahi_cldTemp.sh
  modified: tests/scripts/ahi_cldType.sh

Change all colormap families to "matplotlib"
--------------------------------------------

Redefining plugin familes as a collection of required_parameters,
required_kwargs, and allowable_kwargs.  This allows us to have a
collections of keyword arguments that *can* be specified for
matplotlib-based colormaps, but do not *have* to be specified.
So rather than having a different family for every combination of
tuning parameters for color specifications, have a general "matplotlib" family
that all return the "mpl_colors_info" dictionary, but can have a variable set
of arguments (depending on requirements for a specific colormap).

All matplotlib families now have NO required params or kwargs, and a list of
available_kwargs.

::

  modified: geoips_clavrx/plugins/modules/colormaps/cmap_IR.py
  modified: geoips_clavrx/plugins/modules/colormaps/cmap_cldFraction.py
  modified: geoips_clavrx/plugins/modules/colormaps/cmap_cldHeight.py
  modified: geoips_clavrx/plugins/modules/colormaps/cmap_cldHeightBase.py
  modified: geoips_clavrx/plugins/modules/colormaps/cmap_cldHeightTop.py
  modified: geoips_clavrx/plugins/modules/colormaps/cmap_cldMask.py
  modified: geoips_clavrx/plugins/modules/colormaps/cmap_cldOpd.py
  modified: geoips_clavrx/plugins/modules/colormaps/cmap_cldPhase.py
  modified: geoips_clavrx/plugins/modules/colormaps/cmap_cldReff.py
  modified: geoips_clavrx/plugins/modules/colormaps/cmap_cldTemp.py
  modified: geoips_clavrx/plugins/modules/colormaps/cmap_cldType.py
